>> Spencer Schneidenbach: All right, let's
actually get into looking at some tools.
So we're gonna actually stop talking and
start doing,
which is my favorite thing to do.
So the I wanna give a brief
overview of kind of all the tools
that you will see in .NET.
So first of all,
if you haven't already and
want to follow along with the examples,
the .NET CLI is the Core tool.
It's kind of the beginning point for
all .NET development, as it were.
The way you do that is you go to
dotnet you go to download, and
then I just download the whatever,
the L the current LTS version.
So one of the things you'll note
about .NET is that there are.
Lots of different ways to install it.
I usually just pick this nice,
big purple button.
I do wanna touch on versions
a little bit though,
any odd numbered version is considered
what we call not it's kind of follows
the same pattern as node even
numbers are long term support.
Which is the only ones that I'll
use in a production environment.
With some exceptions.
And then these ones, the ones that are in
between, the .NET 9, the odd numbered
versions are really for, well,
you see it says standard term support.
So let's see a shorter support period
of 18 months versus three years for
something that's LTS.
So in a production environment, I'm always
gonna advise that you use and even in
a learning environment I would advise
that you use the latest LTS version.
But this one is for the people who wanna
be on the cutting edge and really wanna
know about the language features and the
framework features that are coming out.
And as you can see,
it's not even fully released yet.
They've got a release candidate out.
So it means imminent release but
not quite there yet.
That's how you download and install .NET.
Once you do so, you should be able to
go to a terminal and say 'dotnet', and
you'll see that you get some usage dotnet.
I'm gonna see dotnet version,
--version, and
I'm gonna see that I have eight installed.
Visual Studio Code is the, so
I'm unapologetically an IDE person, for
example, I rarely use
Git on the command line.
I usually use an IDE for it so
Visual Studio code is my for
this particular purpose.
Is actually not my preferred IDE for .NET
that would I'll touch on that in a second.
But Visual Studio code is a very good
IDE with a couple of extensions.
You're usually you're pretty good to go.
So you can download that
by Googling VS Code or
going to code.visualstudio.com,
and it really is just a brand.
The Visual Studio part of
that is just a brand, but
VS Code is as open a product as .NET Code,
probably more so in some ways.
And then the other thing is
the C sharp dev kit extension.
So once you have Visual Studio installed,
go to the extensions part, and
you can see that I already
have it installed.
I have C sharp dev kit installed.
So full disclosure, C sharp the base
language support extension,
is open and unlicensed.
You're free to use it for
pretty much whatever.
C-Sharp Dev Kit is free for personal use.
It does have licensing requirements
once you hit certain seat or
revenue thresholds.
So full disclosure there.
But for the purposes of personal use,
you don't have to worry about it.
And Microsoft doesn't even require
you to log in to use the extension or
anything like that.
It's pretty much just install it and go.
So I'd say that this extension is very
important because the IntelliSense,
which has been a feature of Visual Studio
products for a very long time.
And it's one of my favorite parts of,
one of my favorite early parts of using
.NET is the discoverability of API.
So IntelliSense, debugging,
which is really important and
we'll demonstrate some of that, and
we'll do that all that in VS code.
So that's what this extension is used for.
So using the .NET CLI, let's actually
switch back to our terminal, and
you're gonnaa see on this page that we
have a lot of things that you can use
with the .NET CLI.
So these kind of go through all
of the different templates.
So somebody asked about using,
like having good templates or
a good kind of blueprint
to start off from.
So dotnet new is the command
to start a new project.
And then it will, the next argument
after that is what do you want to build?
Do you wanna build a console application?
You'll see me do dotnet new console a lot.
Do you wanna build a class library
which doesn't run on its own?
Code that can be referred to by
other .NET projects or web API for
building an example API project.
So let's see if you wanna see a list of
the templates that are on your screen,
you do 'dotnet new list'.
So let's try that new list.
I should have a bunch, and I do so
you can see that we have all sorts.
So lots of decisions to be made, but
I will point out as we go
the ones that we'll use.
Actually, a lot of the code I'll
have will be pre-published and
you can just open up the solution and go.
But you can see that there's ones for
React.
So this would be React with ASP.NET Core
in the backend, which is really useful.
But like I said,
we'll mostly be doing .NET Console.
Dotnet new install so this would
be to install additional templates
that are community contributed and
published to NuGet.
Dotnet build and
dotnet run you'll see me use those a lot.
If I'm not doing them in the IDE I will
be doing them in the command line so
you'll see that.
And then dotnet restore, which, strictly
speaking, I don't really use much,
dotnet restore is automatically run.
It basically just pulls all the packages
that your solution needs before
it can run.
It does that as part of dotnet build and
dotnet run, so
I rarely run that on my own.
And then we have dotnet test,
which runs all your unit tests,
which we will definitely be getting into
that into the next course on ASP.NET Core.
We'll be doing a lot of testing there.
One other call out for
Visual Studio code is that I am,
again, unapologetically an IDE,
a UI person.
So this NuGet gallery extension
is something that I found.
You can install NuGet packages
via the command line.
I like the ability to kind of
see them inside of my IDE.
Can see that if I hit Command P on my Mac
and I go focus on NuGet view, you can see
that this is where it will show you all
of the like the community supported and
the Microsoft supported packages
that are published by NuGet.
And so we'll touch on some of these.
But I just wanted to point out
that I use an extension for this.
I don't usually I try to avoid using the
command line because I actually do wanna
see things like the version numbers and
things like the info, and
I find the UI to be more convenient for
that.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Lastly,
of course, do we need Visual Studio?
I'll say it again we do
not need Visual Studio.
If you're doing any legacy dotnet
development on dotnet framework
you could use Visual Studio.
It is absolutely a great tool.
I still use it I use it with ReSharper
which is a JetBrains tool it is a paid
product and so is Visual Studio,
it's a, it Visual Studio Community,
like C Sharp Dev kit is a free to use for
personal use,
up to five seats and 1 million in revenue.
You don't have to pay for
it after that they want you to buy
their visual studio Subscription.
ReSharper is a paid product.
You buy it, you license it for,
I think for
a year, and
it adds a whole ton of things to .NET, and
into Visual Studio to make refactoring
easier and navigability easier.
I can't recommend ReSharper enough, but if
you're on, if you're cross- Platform and
doing .NET Core development
seriously as a company.
JetBrains Rider is the best .NET IDE in
the world, sorry, Microsoft, it just is.
JetBrains Riders actually used
internally by lots of Microsoft people.
What is the difference between
dotnet SDKs and the runtime?
So I believe, okay, so the SDKs,
you would install the SDK on your local
machine to actually write .NET software.
The run times are just what's required to
be installed on the target server where
you're deploying the application.
So if you wanted to run .NET apps,
you would install the runtime on Linux, or
Windows, or something the target server
that you wanna run your application on.